ENGDOCS-2379 (#21823)
docker/docker.github.io: content/manuals/desktop/features/kubernetes.md

weight: 60
---

Docker Desktop includes a standalone Kubernetes server and client, as well as Docker CLI integration, enabling local Kubernetes development and testing directly on your machine. 

The Kubernetes server runs as a single-node cluster within a Docker container. This lightweight setup helps you explore Kubernetes features, test workloads, and work with container orchestration in parallel with other Docker functionalities.

Kubernetes on Docker Desktop runs alongside other workloads, including Swarm services and standalone containers.

## What happens when I enable Kubernetes in Docker Desktop?

When you enable Kubernetes in Docker Desktop, the following actions are triggered in the Docker Desktop backend and VM:

- Generation of certificates and cluster configuration
- Download and installation of Kubernetes internal components
- Cluster bootup
- Installation of additional controllers for networking and storage

> Turning on or off the Kubernetes server in Docker Desktop does not affect your other workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Turning the Kubernetes server on or off in Docker Desktop does not affect your other workloads.
```

## Install and turn on Kubernetes

1. Open the Docker Desktop Dashboard and navigate to **Settings**.
2. Select the **Kubernetes** tab. 
3. Select the **Enable Kubernetes** checkbox.

> 4. Select **Apply & Restart** to save the settings and then select **Install** to confirm. This instantiates images required to run the Kubernetes server as containers, and installs the `kubectl` command-line tool on your system at `/usr/local/bin/kubectl` (Mac) or `C:\Program Files\Docker\Docker\Resources\bin\kubectl.exe` (Windows).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select **Apply & Restart** to save the settings and then select **Install** to confirm. This sets up the images required to run the Kubernetes server as containers, and installs the `kubectl` command-line tool on your system at `/usr/local/bin/kubectl` (Mac) or `C:\Program Files\Docker\Docker\Resources\bin\kubectl.exe` (Windows).
```

> [!TIP]
>
> If the `kubectl` config get-contexts command returns an empty result, try:
> 

> > - Running the command in a CMD or PowerShell terminal.

Reviewer 2: nit: I don't think I have ever seen Command Prompt / cmd.exe referred to as `CMD`. Also, "PowerShell terminal" is inaccurate. Suggesting to simplify:

```suggestion
> - Running the command in the Command Prompt or PowerShell.
```
